So I have written out these two lists here.
I call this variable number list because it's all numbers.
And this variable letter list obviously because it's all letters.
Now let's say we want to associate each of these numbers with a letter.
So now I'm just doing this with spaces so you can see how they are visually aligned.
And now let's say we want to print them together.
So what we can do is something like for I in range length number number list like this.
And then I can print out letter list I and then number list I again.
So far this is all code that you know how to run.
And you can interpret based on what you've learned in previous videos.
So here we have the D and the three and the E and the five and so on.
Now there's nothing wrong with writing out a for loop like this.
This is great.
It's perfectly fine.
It's legal.
It's.
But we can do better than that.
Okay.
And the way that we're going to do better than that is by using the zip function.
So let's see how this works.
So for I'm going to call this numb and let in zip number list.
Uh number list.
Letter list.
Like this.
And now I'm going to print out numb comma let okay.
And now here we get actually the reverse order because I put the numbers first.
Okay.
And here I printed out the letters first.
Uh, so uh yeah we get the same.
Well okay.
Let me do it like this.
Now we're really going to get the same result.
Okay, so now instead of having to write out the entire variable name and index into that variable,
we are just going to zip these and use this zip object as the iterable to get out the value at each
element in the number list, and the value at each element in the letter list.
So I think you can see that these two for loops accomplish the same goal, but this one is more compact.
By the way, note the order here.
So whatever variable you put in first that is going to be assigned to this variable here.
So for example, if I were to write letter list and then number list, now it's it's going to be the
reverse.
And this is confusing right.
Because the variable num actually corresponds to the letters.
And the variable let corresponds to the numbers.
So in some sense it's arbitrary what order you put the variables in here into the zip function.
But you do want to be mindful that the order in which you enter the variables into the zip function
makes sense with the order that you have in the for loop here and here I'm only using two variables,
but you are actually not limited to using two variables.
You can also have three variables.
Maybe I would call this w for word.
Okay.
Now this variable doesn't exist.
So we get a little red squiggly underline thing.
But this is just to illustrate that if you will zip up three variables, then you're going to have three
outputs like this in the for loop.
Okay.
So let me go back and get rid of that.
There are two more concepts that I would like to introduce you to in this video.
One is combining what you learned in the previous video about enumerate with what you just learned here
about zip.
So let me copy and paste this code.
And now I'm going to encase this zip object inside an enumerate function.
So this is starting to get really thick code here.
This is starting to get into some advanced Python coding.
And then I'm going to have this variable here called idx.
Now here's the thing.
Enumerate provides two outputs.
It always gives two variables as outputs.
The first variable is the index.
And the second variable is whatever is the iterator inside the enumerate function.
But what is the the iterator inside the enumerate function.
In this case, it's a zip object that itself contains two variables, so we need to use parentheses
to group together these two variables, which are the output of of zip, and then as one object together
as this tuple that is the second output of enumerate.
I hope that makes sense.
I know it's a little bit confusing, but, uh, yeah, that's, uh, that's Python for you.
Okay, so here I have oops, not I, I like this okay.
So here we have the index and here we have the letter.
And here we have the number.
And you know this would be useful if you want to create a new variable let's say ID equals I don't know
num to the power of eight.
Let's say okay now I'm going to initialize this to be zeros of length number list like this.
And then we can examine this v variable.
Uh sorry zeros like this okay.
So we're printing out the index and then the letter and the number.
And this comes from enumerate.
And these two come from zip.
And then I'm using that index as a way to populate this new variable based on some calculation that
I'm performing on some of the variables that I have zipped up here.
The last concept that I want to introduce in this video is using zip to create a dictionary.
So you learned about dictionaries in the previous section.
And dictionaries are used a lot in Python coding, but in particular in large language models.
You'll see dictionaries used a lot in this course.
Okay.
So here I'm going to make a variable names.
And this is going to be a list alpha beta gamma.
And here is going to be values.
And that's let's say ten and 20 and 40 like this okay.
These happen to correspond to numbers.
These are frequencies in Hertz, and those correspond to the brainwaves that are often observed in neuroscience.
So ten hertz or ten cycles per second is called the alpha band.
20 cycles per second is called the beta band and 40 for gamma.
Okay, let's say we want to create a dictionary.
We can write dict and then zip names and values.
And let's see what D is.
Okay.
So now we have zipped these two variables together and put that inside a dict function.
And what this does is create a dictionary where the first element, the first variable in zip becomes
the keys, and the second variable inside zip becomes the values.
So now we can access each of these values using for example beta to get 20.
So as you learned a few videos ago in the previous section.
So there you go.
Now you've learned about the zip function.
It is a little bit more advanced Python coding, but it's quite handy.